Background
# We were interested in the effect that Fecal Microbiota Transplants (FMT) had on the wellbeing of individuals in need and the process that goes along with this variation of Microbiota Transfer Therapy (MTT). Kang & colleagues assessed the impact of FMT on the alteration of gut flora and subsequent improvements of gastointestinal (GI) symptoms in children with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). 
ASD is a complex neurobiological disorder that impairs social interactions and communication skills. These issues lead to repeptitive, restricted, and stereotypical patterns of behavior, interests, and activities of those affected. The cause of this spectrum of disorders is complex due to the interplay of gentic and environmental factors on the severity of symptoms. Due to this lack of straightforward explanations, there is no Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved pharmaceutical treatment to aid in the management of symptoms.
However, the gut microbiota of the individual affected is suspected to play a role in this disorder. People with ASD often suffer from GI issues such as consipation, diarrhea, or a combination of both phenomena. Interestingly, the severity of these GI anomalies is correlated with the severity of ASD symptoms. In those with increasingly severe ASD, a lower abundance of fermentative bacteria and a lower overall bacterial diversity has been observed. This creates a dysbiotic relationship between gut microbiota and issues in metabolite regulation, affecting GI functioning and correlating to general neurobiological conditions incuding anxiety.

18 children between 7 and 16 years old with ASD and existing GI symptoms participated in this 18 week study. ASD symptoms were assessed through the Autism Diagnostic Interview Revised (ADI-R). As well, 20 age and gender matched neurotypical children without GI issues were represented as a control group and monitered for 18 weeks without treatment. 
In the experimental group, the children underwent two weeks of antibiotic treatment through the use of Vancomycin to ensure suppression of pathogenic bacteria in the gut. Prilosec, an acid pump inhibitor, was administered on the 12th day of treatment to manage stomach acid content. This was continued until the end of the treatment period. Next, the participants endured a 12-24 hour fasting period before peforming a bowel cleanse. Flushing the bowels with MoviPrep ensured the removal of remaining problematic gut bacteria and leftover antibiotics in the system. On day 16 of the study, a high initial dose of Standardized Human Gut Microbiota (SHGM) was administered either orally or rectally to repopulate the gut microbiota. This high initial dose was then followed by daily, low maintenance, oral doses in combination with additional Prilosec for 7-8 weeks. This ensured the survivial of the SHGM through the stomach environment. Following the treatment, the participants were monitered for an additional 8 weeks. GI symptoms were assessed through the Gastrointestinal Symptom Rating Scale (GSRS) and the Daily Stool Records (DSR). ASD symptoms were assessed through a combination of several surveys: the Parent Global Impressions-III (PGI-III), Childhood Autism Rating Scale (CARS), Aberrant Behavior Checklist (ABS), Social Responsiveness Scale (SRS), and the Vineland Adpative Behavior Scale II (VABS-II). Lastly, microbial analysis of gut flora diversity was performed using either swabs or direct stool samples.
In our analysis, we compared the bacterial diversity, represented by the frequency of several bacterial species, between stool and swab samples. The bacteria types found in these two sample collections was further compared to donor sample controls of SHGM.
